So let's do a deep dive on Lambda monitoring.
So the first part is that you have many CloudWatch metrics
associated with Lambda.
For example, invocations, which give you
the number of times your function is invoked.
Duration, which is the amount of time your function spends
processing an event.
Errors, which is the number of time that the invocations
resulted in an error.
Throttles, which indicates how many requests
have been throttled.
That means that there hasn't been
any capacity for concurrency.
DeadLetterErrors is the number of time
Lambda failed to send an event to a dead letter queue.
IteratorAge is whenever you read from an event
source mapping that is from a stream,
you know how far beyond you are.
And ConcurrentExecutions, which gives you the number
of function instances that are processing events
at the very same time.
So here is a Lambda Metrics Dashboard
from one of my Lambda functions that I have
on one of my accounts.
And so you use Lambda, you've seen this before.
You will see some of the metrics I told you about
in this dashboard right here.
So why am I talking to you about metrics?
Well, because we can build alarms on tops of metrics.
The example number one is to get the number
of Lambda invocations using the invocations metric.
And we know that if it is equal to zero,
then maybe it's a problem because we expect
our Lambda function to be invoked continuously.
So that could be one alarm.
We could also have a look at
if errors are greater than zero,
to get alerted if our Lambda function
fails to process something.
Or we can have a look at throttles greater than zero.
This is when we are lacking capacity.
So all of these could be very interesting CloudWatch alarms.
So CloudWatch also is used
for logging from a Lambda perspective.
So the Lambda function sends stuff into CloudWatch Logs,
which has its own log group.
And for each function instance,
you're going to have a specific log stream.
For this to work, you need to make sure
that your Lambda function has an execution role
that allows it to create a log group, create log streams
and put log events in there.
So now that we have all the logs in CloudWatch Logs,
we can use CloudWatch Logs Insights to actually search
through all the logs of our Lambda functions.
So, for example, this query in CloudWatch Logs Insights,
will describe how many times your Lambda function had errors
in the last seven days.
And you can get very creative.
Here are a bunch of different queries.
You don't need to remember them, but just for example,
we can have a look at what were the last 100 errors,
or what is the percentage of cold starts
in the total invocations,
or how many invocations are actually using
100% of the assigned memory?
Or what is the average memory usage across
all the invocations, or how many invocations did time out?
All of these can be obtained directly by querying the logs
thanks to CloudWatch Logs Insights.
You also have Lambda Insights for Lambda monitoring.
So Lambda Insights is a way for you to collect,
aggregate, and summarize system level metrics
such as CPU time, memory, disk, and network
as well as diagnostic information such as cold starts
and Lambda worker shutdowns
directly from within your Lambda function.
So this is the kind of adjacent document
that will be collected from within your Lambda function,
and it will be sent into CloudWatch Logs
into a Lambda Insights log group.
Now this helps you isolate issues
with your Lambda functions very quickly
because you have access to all this system level info.
How to use Lambda Insights?
Well, you must use it as a Lambda layer
on your existing Lambda functions,
and then it's a Lambda extension.
And so therefore your function can just run
and thanks to this extra extension,
then you will have access to your Lambda Insights
directly from within CloudWatch Logs.
Okay, so that's it for this lecture.
I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.